[Content] The Avgi - Atomic Space Dragonflies, In Space (#9172)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/avgi/avgi ships.txt

Reviewer: These too?

Reviewer: [I think that too](https://github.com/TheGiraffe3/Jibauni/blob/Jibauni/data/Jibauni/jibauni%20ships.txt), but it's alphabetical in most other places.

Reviewer 2: There isn't an established standard for the ordering.
Human and Hai ships are sorted alphabetically, Efreti ships in descending order of size, Sestor ships in descending order of size as implied by category but ascending order of size within categories, Pug ships in ascending order of size, Bunrodea ships in the order that categories are displayed in game, Exile ships are sort of grouped by role/origin in a way that makes sense but is difficult to describe.
So, unless we actually standardise this, the order isn't an issue.

	"steering engine" 72 1.5
		left

	leak "leak" 30 60
	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 18
	explode "small explosion" 18
	explode "medium explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Harmonikos is a large passenger transport built on the same propulsion and structural frame as the Koryfi and Avlaki, but with a vastly enlarged solar array, as well as a huge assembly of cargo modules towed behind the main truss. Once used as an interplanetary cycler, it is now used for mass transit between the stars."
	description "While not as modular as the Koryfi and Avlaki designs, the Melodikos shares the same solar array and structural frame as the Harmonikos. Refits to swap the centrifuge for a set of cargo pods are uncommon due to the work involved, but still possible."
	description "While its standard set of magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters give it an acceleration generously described as sluggish, the Melodikos' constant thrust flight profile allows it to reach an impressive cruising velocity given enough time."

ship "Phononos"
	plural "Phononos"
	sprite "ship/avgi phononos"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi phononos"
	attributes
		category "Light Freighter"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 1540000
```
It makes sense to me that this would cost notably less than the Avlaki.

		angle 165
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 9 -19
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right

	leak "leak" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 12

	description "This retrofit of the Photikon is little more than a set of cargo pods joined to the front of the torpedo bomber, with struts taking the place of the hardpoints and pylons usually used to mount weapons. An expanded internal tank to fuel a hyperdrive has been barely crammed into the ship, at the cost of reduced space for other internal systems and a slightly weaker hull. Because of this, the Phononon is quite vulnerable to Dissonance piracy or even Abberant incursions, and is thus always part of a larger fleet convoy. Even still, as an automated freighter it experiences much higher rates of accidents and ship loss, a fact that has kept crewed vessels like the Avlaki competitive."
	description "Using the same standard cargo containers as the Avlaki and Harmonikos allows it to carry an impressive amount of cargo, which can be quickly swapped out at the destination for an empty set of shipping containers."

ship "Frequentia"
	sprite "ship/avgi frequentia"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi frequentia"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Utility"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 1920000
```
I'm not really sure how to price a tanker, but 20 fuel pods cost about as much as 4-5 KP-6 photovoltaic arrays, so based on that I've suggested a similar price to the Avlaki.

			"shield damage" 1800
			"hull damage" 1200
			"hit force" 2400
	outfits
		"Lantern Fission Core"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		"Cryogenic Deuterium Tank" 6
		"Electrostatic Ramscoop"
		"Electromotive Rifle" 2

		"Z-360 Fusion Torch"
		"XY-180 Radial Thrusters"
		"Hyperdrive"

	engine 0 75
	"reverse engine" -3 75
		angle -30
	"reverse engine" 3 75
		angle 30
	"steering engine" -36 -52
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 36 -52
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -3 75
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 3 75
		angle -90
		right

	leak "leak" 30 90
	leak "flame" 30 90
	leak "big leak" 15 90
	explode "tiny explosion" 18
	explode "small explosion" 30
	explode "medium explosion" 45
	explode "large explosion" 12
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Frequentia-class Freighter is most commonly found serving as a fuel tender for ships in larger fleets, taking advantage of its large (and ungainly) cargo receptacle to store enough cryogenic deuterium fuel to satisfy a small fleet's needs."

# Utility

ship "Polari"
	sprite "ship/avgi polari"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi polari"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Utility"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 2160000
```
Moderately higher than other similarly-sized Avgi ships, due to the integrated asteroid scan and the bays.

		angle -90
		right

	leak "leak" 30 30
	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Polari-class Scout is a legacy design that has managed to remain relevant in the current era by virtue of fulfilling a role historically not requiring much in the way of combat power. A specialized science ship, it is fitted with a spacious laboratory for analyzing samples and processing data, as well as an extensive suite of sensor arrays for recording observations. A pair of bays can deploy Optikon sensor drones, while an external mount is designed to hold an Akoustiki excursion vehicle for piloted sample gathering operations."
	description "Desptie this versatility, the contested battlespace of the post-Incursion Avgi cluster is one in which the Polari is simply not as capable in. As science crews are increasingly asked to lead risky scouting expeditions back to the Avgi homeworld, demands for a newer, more survivable science ship routinely make their way to the Twilight Guard."

ship "Entasi"
	sprite "ship/avgi entasi"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi entasi"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Utility"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 3360000
```
The combination of the decent bay count, high cargo space, decent weapon space and integrated `solar collection` make this quite a powerful ship, hence a higher cost than the other civilian utilities.

		zoom 0.7
	"reverse engine" -18 51
		zoom 0.7
	"reverse engine" 18 51
		zoom 0.7
	"steering engine" 12 -69
		zoom 0.7
		angle 270
		left
	"steering engine" 12 -63
		zoom 0.7
		angle 270
		left
	"steering engine" -12 -69
		zoom 0.7
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" -12 -63
		zoom 0.7
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 9 87
		zoom 0.7
		angle 270
		right
	"steering engine" 9 90
		zoom 0.7
		angle 270
		right
	"steering engine" -9 87
		zoom 0.7
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" -9 90
		zoom 0.7
		angle 90
		left

	leak "leak" 60 60
	leak "flame" 60 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 15
	explode "small explosion" 12
	explode "medium explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Entasi is a mid-sized mining vessel powered by a pair of solar thermal generators. With the power and weapons capacity available to support laser mining weapons, the Entasi is able to quickly and efficiently break asteroids, whose mineral contents are then collected by the significant fleet of Sonikis cargo drones it can carry into an asteroid field."

ship "Undsyni"
	sprite "ship/avgi undsyni"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi undsyni"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Utility"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 10400000
```
This is similar in size and HP total to the smaller human heavy warships, but with a significantly reduced armament in exchange for a larger fuel capacity and a huge cargo bay. Hence, a similar cost to the 9.2M of the Container Transport or the 9.8M of the Leviathan, but slightly higher than either due to the broader capabilities.

	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Undsyni-class Auxiliary Freighter is not just a bulk freighter, but one built to be large and strong enough to hold its own against attacks from smaller, more militarized vessels. While not quite as payload efficient as more spindly ships such as the Avlaki and Harmonikos, the Undsyni's resilience makes it much more survivable against attacks, with its fusion torch giving it the acceleration to both evade enemies and minimize travel times."
	description "Even before the Incursion, the Undsyni's strong hull and internal outfit capacity made it a popular option as a capital warship for groups who could not gain access to specialized warships."
	description "A reinforced spine running the length of the ship allows it to fit a huge Dipole Ramscoop, capable of bearing the extreme stresses the ramscoop's magnetic field puts on its superconducting magnets. In this configuration, a tanker Undsyni can supply the fuel needs of an entire fleetgroup across dozens of systems."

ship "Modified Tachytia"
	sprite "ship/avgi tachytia/tachytia"
		"frame rate" 30
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi tachytia"
	swizzle 0
	attributes

> 		category "Utility"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 72000000
```
Roughly the same order of magnitude as other very large ships. Admittedly largely irrelevant, as presumably this ship will never be sold in shipyards.

	explode "small explosion" 12
	explode "medium explosion" 9
	explode "large explosion" 9
	explode "huge explosion" 9
	explode "nuke explosion" 3
	"final explode" "nuke explosion" 3
	"final explode" "nuke residue fast" 90

	description "This was once an Avgi sublight starship, one of the last models built before the discovery of the hyperdrive. Most starships around this period used ram augmented fusion drives to reach cruising speeds of up to 0.25c, but the Tachytia class was designed to reach a velocity of 0.4c with an antimatter fuel source to ignite propellant gathered with its huge ramscoop."
	description "This particular ship was never launched on its mission, commissioned just before the hyperdrive made it obsolete. Now, it has been extensively modified by removing many of its propellant tanks, replacing them with a hyperdrive, additional equipment spaces, and several docking bays. The cryosleep bay has also been substituted for spacious habitatation cylinders, making this a true city ship."

# Interceptors

ship "Tremoros"
	plural "Tremoros"
	sprite "ship/avgi tremoros"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi tremoros"
	attributes
		category "Interceptor"
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"

> 		"cost" 490000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 780000
```
This is larger, tougher and better-armed than any human interceptor, so a higher hull cost makes sense (For comparison, the Hawk is the most expensive human interceptor, with a hull cost of 670,000).

	gun 6.5 -18 "Speckle Railgun"
	gun -6.5 -18 "Speckle Railgun"
	gun 6.5 -18 "Speckle Railgun"
	turret 0 39

	engine 0 51
	"reverse engine" -3 -33
		angle 30
	"reverse engine" 3 -33
		angle -30
	"steering engine" -3 -33
		angle 120
		right
	"steering engine" 3 -33
		angle -120
		left
	"steering engine" 0 51
		angle -30
		right
	"steering engine" 0 51
		angle 30
		left

	leak "flame" 30 90
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion small"

	description "The Tremoros-class Interceptor is a small autonomous ship designed to support patrol and interdiction missions. With an emphasis on speed, it can rocket past most adversaries even as it brings its guns to bear, making it exceedingly difficult to hit."
	description "The Tremoros has also seen use as an escort for smaller merchant convoys, with the ability to intercept any enemies that might pose a threat before they can come within range of vulnerable civilian ships."

# Light Warships

ship "Prismaios"
	plural "Prismaios"
	sprite "ship/avgi prismaios"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi prismaios"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Light Warship"
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"

> 		"cost" 240000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 2640000
```
Higher than the Modified Argosy's 1.960M, but lower than the 3M-4M costs of human medium warships.

		angle -45
	"reverse engine" 6 99
		angle 45
	"steering engine" -6 -66
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 6 -66
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -3 99
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 3 99
		angle -90
		right
	gun -9 -48
	gun 9 -48
	gun -9 33 "Sidereal Launcher"
		angle -90
	gun 9 33 "Sidereal Launcher"
		angle 90
	turret -9 18 "Speckle Turret"
	turret 9 18 "Speckle Turret"
	turret 0 90 "Phased Array Laser (Green)"

	leak "leak" 30 60
	leak "flame" 30 90
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 15
	explode "medium explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Prismaios-class Frigate is a recent, streamlined design, praised by many Twilight Guard captains as a highly successful addition to Avgi strike fleets. New construction techniques allow for unprecedented gains in structural integrity for such a lightweight frame, allowing the frigate to serve on the front lines against the Aberrant as a fast, versatile, multipurpose warship."

ship "Interferos"
	plural "Interferos"
	sprite "ship/avgi interferos"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi interferos"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Light Warship"
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"

> 		"cost" 240000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 1380000
```
Similar to human light warships, but skewing toward the low end somewhat given the design's focus on inexpensive construction.

		angle 60
	turret -21.5 -81 "Phased Array Laser (Green)"
	turret 21.5 -81 "Phased Array Laser (Green)"
	turret 0 -48

	engine 0 99
	"reverse engine" -6 99
		angle -30
	"reverse engine" 6 99
		angle 30
	"steering engine" -9 -108
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 9 -108
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -6 99
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 99
		angle -90
		right

	leak "flame" 60 90
	explode "tiny explosion" 15
	explode "small explosion" 9
	explode "medium explosion" 6
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Interferos-class Frigate is an autonomous support ship, designed to be easy to build and disposable enough for mass production. To free up front line warships from having to escort merchant convoys in the Tangles, the Consonance commissioned this design with the intent of licensing its sale to independent merchant captains. It has since become popular due to its impressively large armament, though its attrition rates leave something to be desired."

# Medium Warships

ship "Diaspersi"
	sprite "ship/avgi diaspersi"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi diaspersi"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Medium Warship"
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"

> 		"cost" 2400000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 3600000
```
This carries more ships than comparable human carriers (Aerie two fighters at 3.5M, Roost four fighters at 3M), but does have less weapon space (96 vs 150 for the Aerie or 140 for the nest/roost/skein), hence a similar but slightly higher cost.

		under
	bay "Drone" -21 -75
	bay "Drone" 21 -75
	bay "Drone" -21 -54
	bay "Drone" 21 -54
	bay "Drone" -24 -30
	bay "Drone" 24 -30

	engine 0 144
	"reverse engine" -6 141
		angle -35
	"reverse engine" 6 141
		angle 35
	"steering engine" -9 -135
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 9 -135
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -6 141
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 141
		angle -90
		right
	
	leak "leak" 60 60
	leak "flame" 60 90
	leak "big leak" 90 30
	explode "tiny explosion" 9
	explode "small explosion" 21
	explode "medium explosion" 21
	explode "large explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Diaspersi-class Escort Carrier is a light carrier capable of providing carrier operations support to smaller fleets, while also being capable of independent strike missions with minimal support. Seen escorting large merchant convoys and small Guard fleets alike, the Diaspersi can support two wings of combat drones as well as a single wing of larger fighters."

ship "Difraktos"
	plural "Difraktos"
	sprite "ship/avgi difraktos"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi difraktos"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Medium Warship"
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"

> 		"cost" 3600000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 5400000
```
Larger, tougher and better-armed than any human medium warship, so higher than the 3.86M for the Bastion, or the 4.2M for the Osprey.

	turret -9 -66
	turret 9 -66
	turret 0 36 "Phased Array Laser (Green)"
	turret 0 90 "Phased Array Laser (Green)"

	bay "Drone" -21 -21
	bay "Drone" 21 -21

	engine -3 135
	engine 3 135
	"reverse engine" -9 138
		angle -35
	"reverse engine" 9 138
		angle 35
	"steering engine" -18 -132
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 18 -132
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -9 138
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 9 138
		angle -90
		right
	
	leak "leak" 60 60
	leak "flame" 30 90
	leak "big leak" 60 30
	explode "tiny explosion" 9
	explode "small explosion" 24
	explode "medium explosion" 24
	explode "large explosion" 12
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Diaspersi-class Cruiser is a versatile platform capable of serving in configurations from a high-performance kinetic weapon battlecruiser to a guided missile cruiser, or anything in between. Its powerful torch drive is used to push its heavily armored hull, rather than for speed, giving the Diaspersi good survivability even in close range brawls."

ship "Refraktos"
	plural "Refraktos"
	sprite "ship/avgi refraktos"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi refraktos"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Medium Warship"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Military"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"
		"cost" 4560000
```
Less than the Difraktos, but more than the Diaspersi.

	leak "big leak" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 18
	explode "medium explosion" 18
	explode "large explosion" 6
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Refraktos-class Laserstar is a relatively recent, post-Diaspora destroyer design with a single focus: directed energy weapons. While its armor and shielding systems are light for its size, its expansive radiators can support the thermal loads of a staggering array of laser weapons, both offensive and defensive, allowing it to destroy both missiles and small ships from a vast distance."
	description "A long truss running the length of the ship is built to fit an impressively large mirror-cell fusion torch, giving the Refraktos the mobility needed to evade opponents until they are reduced to hot vapor."
	description "Due to the anemic damage output of Avgi laser weapons compared to their kinetic weapons and missiles, the Refraktos is most often seen in a support role, providing antimissile coverage to entire fleets."

# Heavy Warships

ship "Atenuatia"
	sprite "ship/avgi atenuatia"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi atenuatia"
	swizzle 0
	attributes
		category "Heavy Warship"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Military"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"
		"cost" 14400000
```
Lower than the Navy Carrier's 15.2M cost, as the Atenuatia is only a carrier, not also a direct combatant, but still towards the high end of T1 heavy warship costs, because 24 bays is a lot, and this has a comparable HP total to high-end T1 heavy warships.

	bay "Drone" -18 -216
	bay "Drone" 18 -216
	bay "Drone" -24 -175
	bay "Drone" 24 -175
	bay "Drone" -24 -175
	bay "Drone" 24 -175
	bay "Drone" -46 -165
	bay "Drone" 46 -165
	bay "Drone" -46 -165
	bay "Drone" 46 -165
	bay "Drone" -18 -150
	bay "Drone" 18 -150
	bay "Fighter" 0 -216
		over
	bay "Fighter" 0 -216
		under
	bay "Fighter" 0 -150
		over
	bay "Fighter" 0 -150
		under
	bay "Fighter" 0 -117
		over
	bay "Fighter" 0 -117
		under

	leak "leak" 30 60
	leak "flame" 30 90
	leak "big leak" 30 30
	explode "tiny explosion" 36
	explode "small explosion" 42
	explode "medium explosion" 45
	explode "large explosion" 36
	explode "huge explosion" 6
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Atenuatia is an Avgi fleet carrier, a capital ship that makes up the centerpiece of their battlefleets. With six wings of combat drones and two wings of bombers, an Atenuatia can bring forth an astounding amount of firepower. Carrying this arsenal of fighters has its cost, however, and the Atenuatia can carry relayively few heavy weapons for its size."

# Fighters

ship "Akoustiki"
	sprite "ship/avgi akoustiki"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi akoustiki"
	attributes
		category "Fighter"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 148000
```
Notably higher than the Dropship's 91,000, but lower than the Boxwing's 369,000.

		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		"Spectrometer Array"
		"Electromotive Rifle" 2
		
		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	gun -18 -15 "Speckle Railgun"
	gun 18 -15

	engine -12 18
	engine 12 18
	"reverse engine" -9 -15
		angle -30
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 9 -15
		angle 30
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -9 -15
		angle 120
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 9 -15
		angle -120
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" -15 12
		angle 60
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 15 12
		angle -60
		zoom 0.5
		right

	leak "leak" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 9

	description "The Akoustiki Excursion Vehicle is a modern take on the utility pod, a small personal craft designed to aid in the maintenance and repair of a station, or a carrier vessel and its escorts. It is just as commonly seen flitting about the orbitals, servicing satellites acting as a personal transport shuttle between stations and low gravity bodies. Recent advances in magnetoplasmadynamic engines have made it a capable mining craft as well, albeit one with little room for ores."

ship "Photikon"
	sprite "ship/avgi photikon"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi photikon"
	attributes
		category "Fighter"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Military"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"
		"cost" 138000
```
Similar to the Dagger (129,000), but slightly higher due to the turret mount and greater HP total.

		angle 165
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 9 -15
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right

	gun -6 -30
	gun 0 -30
	gun 6 -30
	turret 0 -33 "Speckle Turret"

	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion small"

	description "The Photikon Torpedo Bomber is the cornerstone of Avgi antiship carrier doctrine. While it is possible for a swarm of Vibratia and similar interdiction drones to engage capital ships, it is the Phonon that is capable of delivering the nuclear anti-ship munitions necessary to bring down the largest warships. By bringing a nuclear torpedo within close range, the payload has a higher chance of surviving enemy point defense weapons compared with standard missiles."
	description "Phonons are occasionally used as gun platforms, mounting a Speckle Turret instead of their standard armament of a pair of Equinox Torpedoes."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

# Drones

ship "Vibratia"
	sprite "ship/avgi vibratia"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi vibratia"
	attributes
		category "Drone"
		licenses
			"Avgi Military"

> 		"cost" 36000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"cost" 96000
```
More than the Combat Drone (83000)

		weapon
			"blast radius" 12
			"shield damage" 240
			"hull damage" 150
			"hit force" 120
	outfits
		"Speckle Railgun"
		"Speck Round" 1800
		"Sidereal Pod"
		"Sidereal Missile" 6
	
		"Concentrating Solar Array"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell"
		"Multispectral Scanner"
	
		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine 0 27
	"reverse engine" -5 -12
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 5 -12
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -5 -12
		angle 90
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 5 -12
		angle -90
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" -3 24
		angle 90
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 3 24
		angle -90
		zoom 0.5
		right
	gun 0 -27 "Speckle Railgun"
	gun 0 -27 "Sidereal Pod"

	explode "tiny explosion" 9

	description "The Vibratia Interdictor is the primary Avgi strike fighter. While individually fragile, Vibratia are usually deployed in large swarms, and are agile enough to be surprisingly survivable even under heavy fire."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Undulon"
	sprite "ship/avgi undulon"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi undulon"
	attributes
		category "Drone"
		licenses
			"Avgi Atomics"

> 		"cost" 36000

Reviewer 2: This seems fine as-is.

		left
	"steering engine" 15 -18
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" -15 3
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 15 3
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
		left

	gun 0 -29 "Nadir Launcher"

	explode "tiny explosion" 12

	description "The Undulon Orbital Silo was first envisioned as a cheap static defense satellite, little more than a tube capable of storing and launching nuclear tipped missiles. Over time, this specialization was broadened, and the modern line of Undulons is alternatively capable of mounting a large fixed gun, and carrying the energy supply to support it, in order to serve as in the ranged artillery role. Their mostly hollow construction provides a great deal of internal space for their size, but also makes the drone quite fragile."
	description "Undulons are usually seen defending critical planets and stations, ready to unload their atomic payloads on any hostile ships that jump into the system."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Optikon"
	sprite "ship/avgi optikon"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi optikon"
	attributes
		category "Drone"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 54000
```
More than the 50,000 of the Surveillance drone, but not by much.

		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine 0 21
	"steering engine" -6 12
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 12
		angle -90
		right

	explode "tiny explosion" 6

	description "The Optikon Sensor Platform is the latest iteration of a long line of exploration probes developed shortly after the discovery of the hyperdrive. Previously, surveying star systems involved launching thousands of starwisp probes pushed via laser, the largest being in the range of hundreds of grams. The hyperdrive changed everything, allowing the Avgi to build robust probes designed to quickly map out newly accessible star systems. Over the decades, these eventually shrank, and the duty of carrying them between star systems was offloaded onto dedicated exploration vessels such as the Polari-class Scout. This leaves the modern Optikon as a highly capable and deployable sensor platform, used in both scientific and combat information roles."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Sonikis"
	plural "Sonikis"
	sprite "ship/avgi sonikis"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi sonikis"
	attributes
		category "Drone"

> 		licenses
> 			"Avgi Civilian"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		licenses
			"Avgi Civilian"
		"cost" 66000
```
No obvious comparison to human ships to be made, but this seems reasonable.

		"Inductive Extractor"
		"Remass Injector"
		"XY-180 Radial Thrusters"
		"Hyperdrive"

	turret -14 27 "Green Optical Laser"
	turret 14 27 "Blue Optical Laser"

	bay "Drone" -9 -25
	bay "Drone" 9 -25
	bay "Fighter" 0 48

	engine 0 69
		gimbal 6
	"reverse engine" -6 66
		angle -30
	"reverse engine" 6 66
		angle 30
	"steering engine" -3 -87
		angle 90
		right
	"steering engine" 3 -87
		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -6 66
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 66
		angle -90
		right

	leak "leak" 30 30
	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Polari-class Scout is a legacy design that has managed to remain relevant in the current era by virtue of fulfilling a role historically not requiring much in the way of combat power. A specialized science ship, it is fitted with a spacious laboratory for analyzing samples and processing data, as well as an extensive suite of sensor arrays for recording observations. A pair of bays can deploy Optikon sensor drones, while an external mount is designed to hold an Akoustiki excursion vehicle for piloted sample gathering operations."

> 	description "Desptie this versatility, the contested battlespace of the post-Incursion Avgi cluster is one in which the Polari is simply not as capable in. As science crews are increasingly asked to lead risky scouting expeditions back to the Avgi homeworld, demands for a newer, more survivable science ship routinely make their way to the Twilight Guard."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	description "Despite this versatility, the contested battlespace of the post-Incursion Avgi cluster is one in which the Polari is simply not as capable in. As science crews are increasingly asked to lead risky scouting expeditions back to the Avgi homeworld, demands for a newer, more survivable science ship routinely make their way to the Twilight Guard."
```

		"Remass Injector" 2
		"XY-360 Radial Thrusters"
		"Hyperdrive"

# Fighters

ship "Akoustiki"
	sprite "ship/avgi akoustiki"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi akoustiki"
	attributes
		category "Fighter"
		"cost" 126000
		"shields" 180
		"hull" 1200
		"required crew" 1
		"bunks" 2
		"mass" 36
		"drag" 1.8
		"heat dissipation" 0.9
		"fuel capacity" 120
		"cargo space" 30
		"outfit space" 96
		"weapon capacity" 24
		"engine capacity" 24
		weapon
			"blast radius" 12
			"shield damage" 240
			"hull damage" 180
			"hit force" 120
	outfits
		"Speckle Coilgun"
		"Speck Round" 900
		
		"Concentrating Solar Array"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		"Spectrometer Array"
		"Electromotive Rifle" 2
		
		"Magnetoplasma Drive" 2

	gun -18 -15 "Speckle Coilgun"
	gun 18 -15

	engine -12 18
	engine 12 18
	"reverse engine" -9 -15
		angle -30
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 9 -15
		angle 30
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -9 -15
		angle 120
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 9 -15
		angle -120
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" -15 12
		angle 60
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 15 12
		angle -60
		zoom 0.5
		right

	leak "leak" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 9

> 	description "The Akoustiki Excursion Vehicle is a modern take on the utility pod, a small personal craft designed to aid in the maintenance and repair of a station, or a carrier vessel and its escorts. It is just as commonly seen flitting about the orbitals, servicing satellites acting as a personal transport shuttle between stations and low gravity bodies. Recent advances in magnetoplasmadynamic engines have made it a capable mining craft as well, albeit one with little room for ores."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	description "The Akoustiki Excursion Vehicle is a modern take on the utility pod, a small personal craft designed to aid in the maintenance and repair of a station, or a carrier vessel and its escorts. It is just as commonly seen flitting about the orbitals as it is servicing satellites or acting as a personal transport shuttle between stations and low gravity bodies. Recent advances in magnetoplasmadynamic engines have made it a capable mining craft as well, albeit one with little room for ores."
```

			"hit force" 180
	outfits
		"Speckle Turret"
		"Speck Round" 4800
		
		"Concentrating Solar Array"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		
		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine -9 -15
		angle 15
	engine 9 -15
		angle -15
	"reverse engine" -9 -15
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 9 -15
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -9 -15
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 9 -15
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" -9 -15
		angle 165
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 9 -15
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right

	gun -6 -30
	gun 0 -30
	gun 6 -30
	turret 0 -33 "Speckle Turret"

	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion small"

	description "The Photikon Torpedo Bomber is the cornerstone of Avgi antiship carrier doctrine. While it is possible for a swarm of Vibratia and similar interdiction drones to engage capital ships, it is the Photikon that is capable of delivering the nuclear anti-ship munitions necessary to bring down the largest warships. By bringing a nuclear torpedo within close range, the payload has a higher chance of surviving enemy point defense weapons compared with standard missiles."

> 	description "Photikons are occasionally used as gun platforms, mounting a Speckle Turret instead of their standard armament of a pair of Equinox Torpedoes."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	description "Photikons are occasionally used as gun platforms, mounting a Speckle Turret instead of their standard armament of two Equinox Torpedoes."
```

	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Undulon"
	sprite "ship/avgi undulon"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi undulon"
	attributes
		category "Drone"
		licenses
			"Avgi Atomics"
		"cost" 36000
		"hull" 600
		"automaton" 1
		"crew equivalent" 1
		"mass" 30
		"drag" 12
		"heat dissipation" .6
		"fuel capacity" 60
		"outfit space" 84
		"weapon capacity" 42
		"engine capacity" 18
		weapon
			"blast radius" 12
			"shield damage" 180
			"hull damage" 120
			"hit force" 90
	outfits
		"Orchid Launcher"
		`"Orchid" Nuclear Missile` 6

		"Concentrating Solar Cell" 3
		"Ultracapacitor Cell"
		"Multispectral Scanner"

		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine -15 3
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
	engine 15 3
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" -15 -18
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 15 -18
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -15 -18
		angle 165
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 15 -18
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" -15 3
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 15 3
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
		left

	gun 0 -29 "Orchid Launcher"

	explode "tiny explosion" 12

> 	description "The Undulon Orbital Silo was first envisioned as a cheap static defense satellite, little more than a tube capable of storing and launching nuclear tipped missiles. Over time, this specialization was broadened, and the modern line of Undulons is alternatively capable of mounting a large fixed gun, and carrying the energy supply to support it, in order to serve as in the ranged artillery role. Their mostly hollow construction provides a great deal of internal space for their size, but also makes the drone quite fragile."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	description "The Undulon Orbital Silo was first envisioned as a cheap static defense satellite, little more than a tube capable of storing and launching nuclear-tipped missiles. Over time, this specialization was broadened, and the modern line of Undulons is capable of both mounting a large fixed gun and carrying the energy supply needed to support it. Their mostly hollow construction provides a great deal of internal space for their size, but also makes the drone quite fragile."
```

	description "Undulons are usually seen defending critical planets and stations, ready to unload their atomic payloads on any hostile ships that jump into the system."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Optikon"
	sprite "ship/avgi optikon"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi optikon"
	attributes
		category "Drone"
		"cost" 54000
		"hull" 600
		"automaton" 1
		"crew equivalent" 1
		"mass" 12
		"drag" 1.2
		"heat dissipation" .9
		"fuel capacity" 300
		"outfit space" 60
		"engine capacity" 24
		"atmosphere scan" 36
		"outfit scan power" 42
		"outfit scan efficiency" 12
		"cargo scan power" 42
		"cargo scan efficiency" 12
		"tactical scan power" 72
		"asteroid scan power" 36
		weapon
			"blast radius" 9
			"shield damage" 150
			"hull damage" 90
			"hit force" 60
	outfits
		"Concentrating Solar Cell" 3
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		"Spectrometer Array"

		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine 0 21
	"steering engine" -6 12
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 12
		angle -90
		right

	explode "tiny explosion" 6

> 	description "The Optikon Sensor Platform is the latest iteration of a long line of exploration probes developed shortly after the discovery of the hyperdrive. Previously, surveying star systems involved launching thousands of starwisp probes pushed via laser, the largest being in the range of hundreds of grams. The hyperdrive changed everything, allowing the Avgi to build robust probes designed to quickly map out newly accessible star systems. Over the decades, these eventually shrank, and the duty of carrying them between star systems was offloaded onto dedicated exploration vessels such as the Polari-class Scout. This leaves the modern Optikon as a highly capable and deployable sensor platform, used in both scientific and combat information roles."

Reviewer 4: `Over the decades, these eventually shrank,` - What does 'these' refer to here?

# Copyright (c) 2023 by Azure
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Transports

ship "Koryfi"
	sprite "ship/avgi koryfi/koryfi"
		"frame rate" 30
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi koryfi"
	attributes
		category "Transport"
		"cost" 1860000
		"shields" 600
		"hull" 1800
		"required crew" 2
		"bunks" 24

> 		"mass" 180

Reviewer 5: Seems to reach impressive speeds in stock loadout- 783 max, 272 acceleration fully loaded, 136 turn fully loaded. Still slow compared to the very, very fast Avgi warships; but in general mass and drag for Avgi ships seem quite low. I imagine this is at least partly intentional, but given Magnetoplasma Drives seem to be about on par with Remnant engines of similar size and similar fast human ships (the Blackbird, for one) reach about half the speed on the same propulsion I suspect it needs something of a nerf. Have the Avgi ships been hit by the mass rebalance yet? That might be part of the problem.

	explode "medium explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Melodikos is a large passenger transport built on the same propulsion and structural frame as the Koryfi and Avlaki, but with a vastly enlarged solar array, as well as a spacious centrifuge habitat. Once used as an interplanetary cycler, it is now used for mass transit between the stars."
	description "While not as modular as the Koryfi and Avlaki designs, the Melodikos shares the same solar array and structural frame as the Harmonikos. Refits to swap the centrifuge for a set of cargo pods are uncommon due to the work involved, but still possible."
	description "While its standard set of magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters give it an acceleration generously described as sluggish, the Melodikos' constant thrust flight profile allows it to reach an impressive cruising velocity given enough time."

# Freighters

ship "Avlaki"
	sprite "ship/avgi avlaki"
		"frame rate" 30
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi avlaki"
	attributes
		category "Light Freighter"
		"cost" 1860000
		"shields" 600
		"hull" 1800
		"required crew" 2
		"bunks" 6
		"mass" 180
		"drag" 3
		"heat dissipation" 0.72
		"fuel capacity" 900

> 		"cargo space" 240

Reviewer 5: An Avlaki can fit enough outfit expansions so that it has have the same cargo space as a Koryfi... and 6 more passenger bunks, on practically the same loadout. This probably isn't worth worrying about, but I do find it really really funny- Just waste 600k credits and you too can make a people-freighter! (The Harmonikos does not have the same quirk).

	"reverse engine" 76 -7
	"reverse engine" -72 -7
	"reverse engine" 72 -7
	"steering engine" -92 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 92 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -88 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 88 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -84 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 84 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -80 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 80 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -76 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 76 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -72 -7
		angle 180
		left
	"steering engine" 72 -7
		angle 180
		right
	"steering engine" -92 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 92 1.5
		left
	"steering engine" -88 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 88 1.5
		left
	"steering engine" -84 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 84 1.5
		left
	"steering engine" -80 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 80 1.5
		left
	"steering engine" -76 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 76 1.5
		left
	"steering engine" -72 1.5
		right
	"steering engine" 72 1.5
		left

	leak "leak" 30 60
	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 18
	explode "small explosion" 18
	explode "medium explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

> 	description "The Harmonikos is a large passenger transport built on the same propulsion and structural frame as the Koryfi and Avlaki, but with a vastly enlarged solar array, as well as a huge assembly of cargo modules towed behind the main truss. Once used as an interplanetary cycler, it is now used for mass transit between the stars."

Reviewer 5: Accidentally calls the Harmonikos a passenger transport.

	explode "tiny explosion" 18
	explode "small explosion" 30
	explode "medium explosion" 45
	explode "large explosion" 12
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Frequentia-class Freighter is most commonly found serving as a fuel tender for ships in larger fleets, taking advantage of its large and ungainly cargo receptacle to store enough cryogenic deuterium to satisfy a small fleet's needs during long journeys. While its spherical fuel tank can be drained and used to transport dry goods and cargo, the cargo bay's notoriously small access door makes loading anything that can't be moved with a pump an exquisitely painful process."

# Utility

ship "Polari"
	sprite "ship/avgi polari"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi polari"
	attributes
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 2160000
		"shields" 600
		"hull"	2100
		"required crew" 6
		"bunks" 12
		"mass" 240
		"drag" 3.6
		"heat dissipation" 0.9
		"fuel capacity" 1800
		"cargo space" 42
		"outfit space" 294
		"weapon capacity" 36
		"engine capacity" 60
		"asteroid scan power" 72
		"anchor point" 1
		weapon
			"blast radius" 90
			"shield damage" 600
			"hull damage" 360
			"hit force" 480
	outfits
		"Blue Optical Laser"

> 		"Green Optical Laser"

Reviewer 5: The Polari (and the Modified Tachytia, but that doesn't matter nearly as much) use more lasing power than their lasing generators allow, meaning if one is ever uninstalled it cannot be reinstalled. Did the Blue laser previously take up 2 lasing power instead?

	explode "small explosion" 12
	explode "medium explosion" 9
	"final explode" "final explosion large"

	description "The Entasi is a mid-sized mining vessel, immediately recognizable by its pair of huge solar thermal generators. With the power and weapons capacity available to support laser mining weapons, the Entasi is able to quickly and efficiently cut through asteroids, whose mineral contents can then be collected by the swarm of Sonikis cargo drones it can carry into an asteroid field."
	description "While somewhat fragile, the energy and space available to the Entasi can make it a potent warship with the right modifications. Rumors abound that certain Entasi captains sympathetic to the Dissonance movement maintain a stockpile of weapons for this very eventuality."

ship "Undsyni"
	sprite "ship/avgi undsyni"
	thumbnail "thumbnail/avgi undsyni"
	attributes
		category "Utility"
		"cost" 10400000
		"shields" 2400
		"hull" 15000
		"required crew" 12
		"bunks" 60
		"cargo space" 600
		"mass" 1500
		"drag" 15
		"heat dissipation" 1.2
		"fuel capacity" 2400
		"outfit space" 630
		"weapon capacity" 153
		"engine capacity" 168
		"spinal mount" 1
		"anchor point" 2

> 			"blast radius" 540

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		weapon
			"blast radius" 540
```

		angle -90
		left
	"steering engine" -9 162
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 9 162
		angle -90
		right

	leak "leak" 60 60
	leak "flame" 60 90
	leak "big leak" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 12
	explode "small explosion" 18
	explode "medium explosion" 18
	explode "large explosion" 6
	"final explode" "final explosion medium"

	description "The Refraktos-class Laserstar is a relatively recent, post-Diaspora destroyer design with a single focus: directed energy weapons. While its armor and shielding systems are light for its size, its expansive radiators can support the thermal loads of a staggering array of laser weapons, both offensive and defensive, allowing it to destroy both missiles and small ships from a vast distance."
	description "A long truss running the length of the ship is built to fit an impressively large mirror-cell fusion torch, giving the Refraktos the mobility needed to evade opponents until they are reduced to hot vapor."
	description "Due to the anemic damage output of Avgi laser weapons compared to their kinetic weapons and missiles, the Refraktos is most often seen in a support role, providing antimissile coverage to entire fleets."

# Heavy Warships

> ship "Atenuatia"

Reviewer 5: I assume that the Atenuatia won't be player-usable for a long while yet, but I'd still be a little concerned about its number of carriables in that eventuality. 24 is a LOT, outdoing the next-largest carriers by a substantial step (8 more than the TF109, and 10 more than that one PR makes the Navy Carrier). Perhaps I'm always biased towards carriers-as-freighters, but the sheer amount of freight that could be carried with properly-outfitted Ateunatia and carriables gives me pause. Maybe tone down the drone count somewhat, from- say- 18/6 to 12/6? On the other hand, there's something to be said for warships-turned-plowshares as a natural expression of player cursedness/creativity....

> ship "Atenuatia"

Reviewer 5: > the sheer amount of freight that could be carried with properly-outfitted Ateunatia and carriables gives me pause.

Having finally remembered ESL2 exists and I can actually run a PR, I can give you numbers on this now. Completely stock, an Atenuatia with six Akoustiki and eighteen Sonikis can haul 1,272 tons- a ways below the capacity of a Republic Navy Carrier's four fighters and six drones. With the carriables refit for full cargo hauling, this jumps to 2,172 tons- somewhat below the seven fighters and nine drones of a Tek Far 109, or somewhat above the capacity of the Republic Navy Carrier if that one PR gets in. With the Atenuatia refit for cargo hauling (using three External Launch Tubes for piracy deterrence, a Spark instead of a Zap, and nearly all other outfits removed) it's all the way to 2,640 tons- a mid-sized freighter's worth above the TF109.

It's probably pretty hard to collect eighteen Faes'mari. If we keep the drones as Sonikis, the cargo capacity climbs slightly more to 2,790 tons. But if we run Faes'mari, the cargo capacity is a horrifying 4,071 tons (once we've removed a cargo expansion to replace it with a fourth External Launch Tube for piracy deterrence). Obviously this capacity is probably not quite what one would achieve in practice, assuming they wish to use frivolities such as shield generators, but it is still extremely high. It will be a long time before the Atenuatia is for sale, or even capturable (I imagine); but being nearly four times the capacity of a Deep River or three times the capacity of a Karek A'awoj is quite the feat. 

My initial idea of making the count 6 fighters and 12 drones drops it to 3,099 tons, which is a bit over twice that of a suitably-outfitted Navy Carrier. Making it 5 fighters and 15 drones (in case you want some sort of one fighter leading three drones thing) makes it 3,470 tons. 

(Just for fun- outfitting them all for _passengers_ instead gives 944 bunks, most of which are of course unusable in boarding. Just in case you wanted to haul passengers in missile storage, ore bays, and lifepod emergency storage.)

> ship "Atenuatia"

Reviewer 5: One more just for fun aside, when similarly outfitted:
Difraktos- 684 tons
Diaspersi- 1632 tons (again comparable to the current Carrier maximum)
Undsyni- 1608 tons (ditto)
Polari- 601 tons (but the Polari doesn't have the weapons space or gun ports to eliminate its piracy threat)
Entasi- 1697 tons 
Modified Tachytia- 4061 tons (not enough weapons space or gun ports to eliminate piracy threat)

...Wait. A Smew can fit an External Launch Rail without needing to remove a cargo expansion. Okay, it's 4181 tons on the Modified Tachytia and 4131 on the Atenuatia.

		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right

	gun -6 -30
	gun 0 -30
	gun 6 -30
	turret 0 -33 "Speckle Turret"

	leak "flame" 30 60
	explode "tiny explosion" 15
	"final explode" "final explosion small"

	description "The Photikon Torpedo Bomber is the cornerstone of Avgi antiship carrier doctrine. While it is possible for a swarm of Vibratia and similar interdiction drones to engage capital ships, it is the Photikon that is capable of delivering the nuclear anti-ship munitions necessary to bring down the largest warships. By bringing a nuclear torpedo within close range, the payload has a higher chance of surviving enemy point defense weapons compared with standard missiles."
	description "Photikons are occasionally used as gun platforms, mounting a Speckle Turret instead of their standard armament of two Ophrys Torpedoes."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

ship "Photikon" "Photikon (Atomic)"
	outfits
		"External Launch Rail" 3
		`"Ophrys" Nuclear Torpedo` 3
		
		"Concentrating Solar Array"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		
		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

# Drones

> ship "Vibratia"

Reviewer 2: This is quite well armed for a drone. With 24 weapon capacity it's second only to the Flycatcher, and its two gun ports are far more useful than the Flycatcher's single turret. The HP and mobility are also very good, and having fuel is also an advantage over most other drones.
So, this might be a bit too well-armed for a drone? You could drop it from 24 to 18 and still fit two Speckle coilguns, and that would be more reasonable.
Other than that, that 1500 hull is more than double what any human drone has.

		"threshold percentage" 0.12
		"mass" 24
		"drag" 0.3
		"heat dissipation" 0.99
		"fuel capacity" 60
		"outfit space" 75
		"weapon capacity" 24
		"engine capacity" 24
		"radar jamming" 3
		weapon
			"blast radius" 12
			"shield damage" 240
			"hull damage" 150
			"hit force" 120
	outfits
		"Speckle Coilgun"
		"Speck Round" 900
	
		"Concentrating Solar Array"
		"Ultracapacitor Cell"
		"Multispectral Scanner"
	
		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine 0 27
	"reverse engine" -5 -12
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 5 -12
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -5 -12
		angle 90
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 5 -12
		angle -90
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" -3 24
		angle 90
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 3 24
		angle -90
		zoom 0.5
		right
	gun 0 -27 "Speckle Coilgun"
	gun 0 -27

	explode "tiny explosion" 9

	description "The Vibratia Interdictor is the primary Avgi strike fighter. While individually fragile, Vibratia are usually deployed in large swarms, and are agile enough to be surprisingly survivable even under heavy fire."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

> ship "Undulon"

Reviewer 2: The Undulon is extremely slow, has moderate HP for a T1 drone, and has only a single gun mount, all in exchange for having far more weapon space than any other drone in the game. I do think that in this case the downsides are sufficient to balance it out, particularly given that the limited outfit space effectively restricts it to only missile weapons, and the low speed limits its ability to rearm from a carrier during combat.

		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" -15 -18
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
	"reverse engine" 15 -18
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
	"steering engine" -15 -18
		angle 165
		zoom 0.5
		left
	"steering engine" 15 -18
		angle 195
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" -15 3
		angle 15
		zoom 0.5
		right
	"steering engine" 15 3
		angle -15
		zoom 0.5
		left

	gun 0 -29 "External Launch Tube"

	explode "tiny explosion" 12

	description "The Undulon Orbital Silo was first envisioned as a cheap static defense satellite, little more than a tube capable of storing and launching nuclear-tipped missiles. Over time, this specialization was broadened, and the modern line of Undulons is capable of both mounting a large fixed gun and carrying the energy supply needed to support it. Their mostly hollow construction provides a great deal of internal space for their size, but also makes the drone quite fragile."
	description "Undulons are usually seen defending critical planets and stations, ready to unload their atomic payloads on any hostile ships that jump into the system."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

> ship "Optikon"

Reviewer 2: Integrated scanners betweeen them provide the equivalent of about 18 space, bringing the Optikon up to an effective outfit space of 78, which seems fine for a drone.

	outfits
		"Concentrating Solar Cell" 3
		"Ultracapacitor Cell" 3
		"Multispectral Scanner"
		"Spectrometer Array"

		"Magnetoplasma Drive"

	engine 0 21
	"steering engine" -6 12
		angle 90
		left
	"steering engine" 6 12
		angle -90
		right

	explode "tiny explosion" 6

	description "The Optikon Sensor Platform is the latest iteration of a long line of exploration probes developed shortly after the discovery of the hyperdrive. Previously, surveying star systems involved launching thousands of laser-propelled starwisp probes, no larger than a few hundred grams each. The hyperdrive turned this paradigm on its head, allowing the Avgi to build sizable probes designed to quickly map out newly accessible star systems. Over the decades, these gradually shrank as the duty of carrying them between star systems was offloaded onto dedicated exploration vessels, the precursors to the Polari-class Scout. This left the modern Optikon as a highly capable and deployable sensor platform, used in both scientific and combat information roles."
	description "	Drones do not come equipped with a hyperdrive. You cannot carry a drone unless you have a ship in your fleet with a drone bay."

> ship "Sonikis"

Reviewer 2: This seems likely to end up becoming the drone equivalent of the Boxwing - while the Faes'mar is better in that role, the Sonikis is considerably easier to acquire in large numbers. I don't think it's an issue, though, any more than the Boxwing is an issue.

Reviewer 5: > This seems likely to end up becoming the drone equivalent of the Boxwing - while the Faes'mar is better in that role, the Sonikis is considerably easier to acquire in large numbers. I don't think it's an issue, though, any more than the Boxwing is an issue.

Distinctly agreed, as someone who loves using carriers as freighters. Drone slots are rare, and a full freighter setup will probably find it better to use any drone slots they have on high-damage weapons to scare off raids.

		zoom 0.5
		right

	gun -6 -30

> 	gun 0 -30 "Speckle Turret"

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this turret be in the turret mount, rather than in a gun port?
